Add `osu! World Cup 2025: Round of 16 Recap` news post (#13999)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-11-22-osu-world-cup-2025-round-of-16-recap.md

---
layout: post
title: "osu! World Cup 2025: Round of 16 Recap"
date: 2025-11-22 12:00:00 +0000
---

After three weeks of Qualifiers and Group Stage play, the 2025 osu! World Cup reached the bracket stage at long last.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-11-22-osu-world-cup-2025-round-of-16-recap/banner.png)

> Finally, the top 8 teams would get to show their stuff on the biggest stage osu! has to offer, while the Contenders and Challengers who had survived the early rounds of play would join them and attempt to play spoiler. Would the favorites dominate? Could the underdogs pull off any massive upsets? Which losers bracket teams would be sent home? It was time for the Round of 16 to get under way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the top 8 teams got to show their stuff on the biggest stage osu! has to offer, while the Contenders and Challengers who had survived the early rounds of play joined them to attempt to play spoiler. Would the favourites dominate? Could the underdogs pull off any massive upsets? Which losers' bracket teams were sent home? It was time for the Round of 16 to get underway.
```

</div>

## Mappool recap

<style>
    .osu-md--news .audio-player {
        max-width: inherit;
    }
</style>

**[Download the pool here! (197 MB)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/packs/P303)**

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?video=2613988017&parent=osu.ppy.sh&autoplay=false&time=4h44m24s" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-11-22-osu-world-cup-2025-round-of-16-recap/mappool.png)

This Round of 16 mappool had some quite interesting maps to offer, with plenty of unique ones chosen. From the already existing maps, some selections stood out, such as [step by step](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2298768#osu/5167719), a song which originally debuted in CWC 2024, and [Oboetete Ii Yo](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/53791#osu/163836). The CWC original was a swing offering with interesting flow and slider aim tests, while [cRyo[iceeicee]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/835998)'s map was a nostalgic, mechanically intensive fast pick on DT, and an interesting view into the old days, as the map is around 13 years old.

> Speaking of CWC originals, our tiebreaker this week was yet another one, this time CWC 2025's Grand Finals tiebreaker song, [Eternity by Yooh](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2462029#osu/5386544), which acted as the grand decider for this Round of 16 pool, offering a classic tech-oriented experience mapped by [[ Drop ]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2391299) and [Arushii](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15664628).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Speaking of CWC originals, our tiebreaker this week was yet another one, this time CWC 2025's Grand Finals tiebreaker song, [*Eternity* by Yooh](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2462029#osu/5386544), which acted as the grand decider for this Round of 16 pool, offering a classic tech-oriented experience mapped by [[ Drop ]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2391299) and [Arushii](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15664628).
```

> For the new customs in the bulk of the pool, maps such as [Ring Ring Ring](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2462142#osu/5386835) and [Gascon Cocktail](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2462129#osu/5386798) exemplified the pool's overall commitment to different types of music; the former was a slightly technical DT alt pick, while the latter was a snappy, rhythmically intensive alt offering on Nomod. The most popular pick, however, was a familiar face, mapping a familiar song, but with a newer coat of paint: [Satellite](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1661227)'s map... of [a song by senya](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2462140#osu/5386832). Sometimes all you want is the comfort of the known, and the Yuuhei Satellite ex-vocalist's music has been a mainstay in any tournament's DT pools for a long time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the new customs in the bulk of the pool, maps such as [Ring Ring Ring](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2462142#osu/5386835) and [Gascon Cocktail](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2462129#osu/5386798) exemplified the pool's overall commitment to different types of music: the former was a slightly technical DT alt pick, while the latter was a snappy, rhythmically intensive alt offering on Nomod.

The most popular pick, however, was a familiar face mapping a familiar song, but with a newer coat of paint. It was none other than [Satellite](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1661227)'s map... of [a song by senya](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2462140#osu/5386832). Sometimes all you want is the comfort of the known, and the Yuuhei Satellite ex-vocalist's music has been a mainstay in any tournament's DT pools for a long time.
```

---

Finally, we did have one [osu! original](/wiki/osu!_originals) this week. The great [gladde paling](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/511), the mad Dutch eel themselves, blessed us with a track unlike any other, as [vleermuis](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2462132#osu/5386813) descended upon the pool this week.

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-11-22-osu-world-cup-2025-round-of-16-recap/vleermuis_banner.png)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2455348#osu/5365995)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/511/Songs/gladde%20paling%20-%20vleermuis.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

> I, as the writer of this column, cannot describe the track, or its map, made by our resident mad scientist [Ryuusei Aika](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7777875), in good enough wording in a short enough word count. Just go give it a quick listen. It's less than two minutes of your time — I promise you'll understand why it defies description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I, as the writer of this column, cannot describe the track, or its map, made by our resident mad scientist [Ryuusei Aika](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7777875), in good enough wording in a short enough word count. Just go [give it a quick listen](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_KgODmONdZA). It's less than two minutes of your time — I promise you'll understand why it defies description.
```

| **Spain** ::{ flag=ES }:: | **5** | 1 | ::{ flag=AR }:: Argentina |
| **Germany** ::{ flag=DE }:: | **5** | 1 | ::{ flag=BR }:: Brazil |

The schedule for day 1 of this year's bracket stage was a sparse one, featuring only 5 of the week's 16 total matches, but it would be a showcase for four top 8 seeds making their first appearance in head-to-head match play of the year: overall #1 and #3 seeds and pre-tournament favorites Poland and Australia, perennial podium contenders Canada, and defending champions South Korea. None would disappoint, as the four teams combined to lose a total of just one map with each winning at least one of their five points by over 1,000,000 score. Any fears that these teams may be rusty against opponents who had each played 3 matches already were quickly alleviated as the top seeds showed off and showed out in their OWC 2025 debuts.

### ::{ flag=IT }:: Italy vs. ::{ flag=TR }:: Türkiye

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?video=2619201548&parent=osu.ppy.sh&autoplay=false" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

> It was left to the lone losers' bracket match of Saturday to produce a competitive match, and the battle between Italy and Türkiye delivered in spades. Italy were out to prove to the world that their 0–15 map score in the Group Stage was a fluke, while Türkiye sought to continue a strong run of form that saw them finish 3–0 in Group F.

Reviewer: "italy" is a singular noun

```suggestion
It was left to the lone losers' bracket match of Saturday to produce a competitive match, and the battle between Italy and Türkiye delivered in spades. Italy's players were out to prove to the world that their 0–15 map score in the Group Stage was a fluke, while Türkiye sought to continue a strong run of form that saw them finish 3–0 in Group F.
```

---

Sunday brought forth the majority of the week's matches, getting started early and featuring action throughout the day to the tune of nearly 10 hours of gameplay. While the day started off inauspiciously with Taiwan sweeping the Netherlands, things would heat up over the course of the morning. New Zealand challenged 7th-seeded United Kingdom, with the UK eventually coming out on top 5–3; Japan and Thailand — more on them later — engaged in a fierce battle leading to the week's only tiebreaker.

> Several other losers bracket matchups took place with victors eventually including Indonesia, Austria, Sweden, Finland, and Spain. Sunday's afternoon window featured three top 8 seeds getting their tournament under way, as the United States took down France, Germany defeated Brazil, and the Russian Federation became the lone top 8 seed to lose their round of 16 match, with #9 seed China taking them out in a closely fought 5–3 match.

Reviewer: this is just more summary. should be before both matches, unless you want "saturday" and "sunday" headings
